---
layout: syllabus
title: Syllabus
---
# Textbooks

The following are available from the campus book store or wherever you prefer to purchase books:

1. Samuel R. Delaney, *Babel 17*
1. Philip K. Dick, *Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep*
1. *The Future is Female*, vol. 2 ed. Lisa Yaszek
1. William Gibson, *Neuromancer*
1. Octavia Butler, *Dawn*
1. Marge Piercy, *He, She, and It*
1. Ann Leckie, *Ancillary Justice*
1. Martha Wells, *All Systems Red*

# Assignments

| Assignment           | Due Date           | Value |
|----------------------|--------------------|-------|
| Discussion Questions | Weekly             | 25%   |
| Position Papers      | See Schedule       | 30%   |
| Final Paper          | 2023.05.08         | 45%   |

## Discussion Questions

By 11:30AM before class each week, post a discussion question to the relevant discussion board on Canvas. These questions will help start our conversation and will help to structure our knowledge of the course topic as we move forward.

Each question needs to be generative but can be specific. If you don’t understand a particular scene or wonder why the writer chose to portray a particular detail in a particular way, ask. If you notice a theme developing across several readings and find it reflected in this story, ask.

If a day has multiple assigned readings/viewings, you only need to post a question on one reading/viewing for that day.

Questions may be posted earlier, if you are unable to attend class.

## Position Papers

Twice (in weeks 6 and 12), you will produce a short paper (2-3 pages, double-spaced) that takes a position on a particular selection from one of the texts we have read so far in class.

These papers will cover material that has already been discussed in class but has not been covered by a position paper. The first paper, due at the start of week 6, will cover material from the first five weeks of class. The second paper will cover texts from week 6 through week 11.

These position papers ask you to show insights and raise questions in response to the reading and course discussions. Papers that merely summarize an argument or restate the selected passage will receive a failing grade. You need to explain why the passage in question is thought-provoking, or unsettling, or unclear and suggest how you respond to this challenge.

## Final Project

For your final project, you may choose one of the following options:

## Traditional Seminar Paper

**Your Position:** An Americanist, interested in 20th century literature, or posthuman theory. Someone who hasn't written a lot of seminar papers yet.

**You Produce:** A traditional seminar paper; 8000-900 words with a sustained argument about American science fiction, artificial intelligence, cybernetics, or posthuman theory. Engage with 1-2 course texts, targeting a specific intellectual issue.

**Your Work**: Extensive research on the text and the topic you've chosen (literary history, technical background, and theory); fashioning an argument and proofreading a long-form essay; developing a thesis

**Benefits to You**: Practice writing academic articles the size of journal articles or proto-dissertation chapters; deeper knowledge of science fiction, science studies, and/or theory.

## Seminar Paper Related to Your Field

**Your Position**: Specialist in another literary field, literary period, or humanist discipline who also hasn't written many seminar papers yet.

**You Produce**: Seminar paper bridging one aspect of course materials with your speciality or with a different class you are taking this semester. 8000-9000 word sustained argument linking a topic in our course readings to a text, author, theorist, concept, method, or historical development in your own discipline or other current class

**Your Work**: Same as above, but may also involve some reference reading about science fiction in general, current methods in science fiction criticism, or history of computing.

**Benefits to You**: Same as above, plus broadening your horizons and allowing you to focus on research and writing processes, over and above the argument.

## Handbook of Encyclopedia Chapter

**Your Position**: A student wanting to synthesize course takeaways (see the big picture of the whole semester); a student just starting grad school or nearing comprehensive exams.

**You Produce**: Handbook or encyclopedia chapter about artificial intelligence, cyborgs, cybernetics, or the posthuman in science fiction. 5000-6000 word comprehensive, neutral reference work with extensive bibliography attached (categorized and/or briefly annotated).

**Your Work**: Recalling and skimming course readings/discussions; performing a complete survey of existing academic publications on our course topic; writing for concision, accuracy, and completeness

**Benefits to You**: Practice writing reference materials (teaching/informing rather than persuading), a skill not often taught; becoming efficient at finding, skimming, and summarizing sources.

## Conference Paper with All Practical Apparatus Included

**Your Position**: A student intent on professionalizing (hence planning to present at a conference in the near future).

**You Produce**: Conference paper with all practical apparatus included. 8-10p. double-spaced paper with slideshow, bibliography, and MP3/screencast of you delivering it, plus info about which conference you would attend, how you’d budget, 250-word abstract, and 100-word personal biography

**Your Work**: Writing a complete but short argument with appropriate slides/visuals; selecting a conference appropriate for your time, budget, topic, and discipline; practicing reading the paper aloud many times.

**Benefits to You**: Practice with public-speaking skills; finding a potential lead for a real conference presentation to add to your CV; knowledge of how to record and share an MP3 or a screencast (hint: Audacity is a good, free option).

## Digital Project

**Your Position**: A student wanting to branch out entirely, collaborate, or pursue a DH certificate.

**You Produce**: Digital project. Zotero library, reference website, podcast, digital edition, digital map, reviews of existing related DH projects, infographic or other visualization.

**Your Work**: Identifying a topic the public needs to know more about; shaping a digital project appropriate for these goals; learning a new technology.

**Benefits to You**: Gaining new technical and/or collaboration skills; generating a project worthy of putting on your CV or pursuing grants or DH certificate.

(Source: This chart was used with permission from Shawna Ross.)

# Schedule

{% include schedule.html %}

